just to take it in a little bit of a
Freudian Direction it seems you can
think you know if you think about it in
terms of of sort of Freud's
developmental model the the narcissism
is like being stuck in the phallic stage
a little bit and that model you know you
can use it as an adult but it's kind of
like a you're a little bit of a cartoon
and so that's something I see that's
it's it's like you're a cartoon child
acting like an adult
[Music]
hello everybody so I had the privilege
today of speaking with Dr Keith Campbell
who's professor of psychology at the
University of Georgia Keith is a social
psychologist so he's interested in the
relationship between the social networks
and the social behavior of people and
their own individual being he works the
Nexus of social psychology personality
psychology which is more centered on the
individual person and psychopathology
which is the study of pathological
abnormal or otherwise counterproductive
and painful Behavior his
research focuses more specifically even
on narcissism and narcissism is part of
a broader cluster of Personality
pathologies that are counterproductive
with regards to someone's success over
long spans of time and in Social
circumstances so if you're self-centered
and you're
narcissistic and it's all about you the
problem with that is that that's a good
Pathway to misery for you over any
reasonable amount of time although you
may have some small punctuated victories
and it's also extremely hard on the
stability of your Social relationships
because the only people who want to be
around a manipulative narcissist for any
length of time are you know disenchanted
and demoralized masochists and that
that's not the basis for a productive
and meaningful relationship and so that
narrow
self-centeredness that's also hedonistic
whim focused requires immediate
gratification of needs and wants it's a
very counterproductive way of conducting
yourself over any reasonable span of
time and well I was interested in
talking to Dr Campbell partly because
I've I've talked to some of his
compatriots who've been working on
narcissism but I'm also interested in
the issue more broadly because I think
that we're we're we've seen something of
an epidemic of dark personality trait
narcissism because of the explosion of
social media which enables
anonymity so it enables people to get
away with things that grab attention in
the short run but but that are socially
counterproductive and counterproductive
in relationship to the Future so I
wanted to talk to Dr Campbell about
narcissism about his work on narcissism
about how it's conceptualized about how
it's best understood about how you could
detect it about its relationship let's
say with leadership and status and
self-esteem and broader personality and
uh well the General Social world and
so that's what we did Dr Campbell is the
author of 200 scientific papers that's a
lot of papers it's about the equivalent
of 60 PhD thesis 60 or 70 so that's
that's how much scientific work he's
done it's a lot and several books
including the new science of
narcissism and Professor ocean from the
big five openness conscientiousness
extroversion agreeableness neuroticism
ocean a small tale of personalities Big
Five in any case that's what the
discussion with Dr Campbell focuses on
so join us well Dr Campbell we might as
well start by allowing you to introduce
yourself to everybody and tell people
what you do what your specialty is where
you're working all of that just to give
them a general while a general
introduction sure my name's Keith
Campbell I'm a professor of psychology
at the University of Georgia here in
Athens Georgia um my training and
background are in Social personality
Psych ology so my expertise is primarily
on the self the nature of self and
self-enhancement and in terms of
personality most of my work has been on
the trait of narcissism which is sort of
the individual difference having to do
with
self-enhancement maybe tell tell people
um so when I worked in Boston um I was
in the personality and psychopathology
research group but that's slightly
different that so that was the overlap
between personality psychology and
clinical ology you're working at the
Nexus between personality psychology and
social psychology those are rather
academic distinctions so maybe one of
the things you could do is let everybody
know what it means fundamentally to work
in the field of personality and in the
field of Social and how those are the
same and how they're distinct yeah it's
it's interesting so where with something
like from a social psychological
perspective when I'm interested in a
topic like the self I'm focused on
things like
self-regulation how people you know
enhance themselves publicly status
seeking relationships a lot of the
social
processes when I'm thinking about
personality I tend to think more about
individual differences you know how some
people are more you know extroverted
more have different structures on the
big five than other people so those are
more like personality traits and then
that integrates with Psychopathology
where I usually work with my friend Josh
Miller who's a clinician and we try to
integrate a lot of these social
personality findings into the
personality Psychopathology literature
to see how normal personality manifest
as clinical personality or clinical
personality
disorders generally I think you know the
study of normal personality is pretty
useful for understanding disordered
personality as well I don't think you
cross some magic threshold and become a
different person with a disorder so I
think it's very useful yeah so for
everybody watching and listening you
could think well there are different
ways of analyzing people and so you can
analyze people say biologically you can
concentrate on the micro mechanisms of
physiological function so you can look
at the parts of someone and then you
could look at the person as a whole but
as an individual and that's really what
the personality psychologists do the
unit of analysis would be the individual
as a whole and as as you pointed out Dr
Campbell personal psychologists have
done a pretty good job of
differentiating the personality into its
basic categories its basic traits the
big five theorists have probably done
the best job of that with extroversion
neuroticism agreeableness
conscientiousness and openness to
experience if you're a social
psychologist you start to Veer I suppose
to some degree into the territory of
sociology and you look at the human
being as a social organism like how it
is that we interact with others because
we're highly social creatures and and
what it what it means for our behaviors
our thoughts our emotions and our
perceptions that we exist in a social um
in a social milu and so you're working
at the intersection between Personality
and Social now you also pointed out that
in the domain of both Personality and
Social there are questions about let's
say normal versus abnormal behavior um
or healthy versus unhealthy Behavior
depending on how you uh conceptualize it
and that starts to delve into the realm
of
Psychopathology and psychopathology
might be described at least in part at
the personality level so you could say
that someone who has a
psychopathological personality is
working at Cross purposes to themselves
so they're anxious often and hopeless
too much negative emotion not enough
positive emotion so that they themselves
would compl about it but you could also
think about
Psychopathology from the social
perspective because there are people
like the narcissists that you referred
to who at least in the short term might
be perfectly happy from an emotional
perspective they're not anxious they're
not suffering they're not guilt-ridden
they may even be enthusiastic but
everybody else regards them as a
veritable plague and so Okay so we've
sketched out the we've sketched out the
territory I don't know if you have
anything to add to that from a
definitional perspective
no I think you've hit the nail on the
head I think what's really interesting
is a lot of things when you focus on the
individual like self-enhancement or
showing off or taking credit for things
those things that seem beneficial when
you start integrating into into a
relationship can backfire on you so if
I'm attention seeking it might be great
as an individual but if I'm working on a
team and I'm attention seeking my team
members will hate me and my team
performance will fall apart so when we
move into that social World a lot of the
rules change so I think that's really
important and I think clinically what's
really important is the role of
impairment you know is your personality
causing impairment most of us as you
said think about impairment being
internal psychological I'm depressed I'm
anxious but it can also be I'm cheating
on my wife and ruining my marriage I'm a
bad father you know there's a lot of
ways I can have issues that hurt other
people and not necessarily myself
since I joined forces with the dailywire
plus 2 years ago we've built a
comprehensive collection of Premium
content we've developed these shows not
only to provide you with a structure and
framework for meaning but to arm you
against the sadistic troll demons my
collection which we've titled mastering
life with Jordan B Peterson acts as a
guide to help you win at the series of
games that make up life my serious
marriage was designed to help you
strengthen your relationship so that you
can create the perfect date that repeats
endlessly in the series on masculinity
Dragons monsters and men I outline a way
of discovering your purpose of slaying
the dragons that stand in your path
Envision and Destiny that will help you
transform the chaotic potential of the
future into the actuality that you need
and desire this fall we're adding even
more exclusive content to my mastering
life series my new series negotiation
offers practical guideline to help you
close a deal where both sides walk away
with a win we're also offering a
three-part series on success strengthen
your family and to strengthen your
relationships and to aim up you don't
want to deteriorate into an idiotic
Hedonism two of the top things people
are struggling with their depression and
anxiety while we walk through that at
the Practical level and then right down
to the neuroscientific level in my
five-part series depression and anxiety
in addition to our mastering life series
we've explored biblical writings and
their cultural influence including a
deep evaluation of the books of Genesis
and exodus and how the biblical Corpus
the biblical Library itself came into
existence our new 10-part series on the
gospels delineates the accounts of the
New Testament writings and finally join
me on a journey through time to find out
where we came from and and how that
formed who we are and what we believe
foundations of the West the first
episode is outnow on dailywire plus Rome
Jerusalem Athens five-part series I had
a blast making it and I hope you find it
extremely useful to watch for those of
you who have already subscribed thank
you very much stay tuned we're releasing
new cont content now every week through
the end of the year for those of you who
have yet to sign up use promo code
Jordan and save 35% on your annual
membership it's a hell of a deal visit
dailywire.com to get the entire
collection of mastering life plus all
the new releases that are to come the
work I'm doing in conjunction with the
daily wire brings the spirit of
Adventure forward join us on dailywire
plus today onward and upward
right well you're you're you're touching
there on something
approximating an objective definition of
of health or its opposite you know
Psychopathology because what you're
implying and you correct I'm going to
flesh it out a little bit so it's it's
easy to assume that our Notions of
Psychopathology say psychological
uh disorder or ill health are only
cultural constructs but you you've
touched on something I think that
disproves that quite radically and so
let me walk through that a bit and tell
me what you think about it
so I could perform I could look at the
world or I could think about the world
in a manner that optimizes my emotional
functioning for the moment and that
would be uh satisfying and rewarding for
me in the moment but it could be that
I'm regulating my my emotions in the
present at the cost of my emotional
regulation in the future and so for me
to be a functional person because I
extend across time I have to act in the
moment in a way that doesn't compromise
my my actions my existence across time
so it's you could think about it as that
would be the constraints of an iterating
game I have to be able to play a game
with myself that can last across the
months and years of my life so that's
sets up a pretty serious set of
constraints around the manner in which I
have to conduct myself now the same
thing
applies
socially there are ways that I could
regulate my emotions that are going to
manifests at the expense of my wife or
my children my my other family members
or the broader community and so for me
to be functional in the higher sense as
a social creature I have to I can't
regulate my emotions at the expense of
other people that also sets up something
like an objective criteria at least a
transpersonal criteria for how we
conceptualize normal or healthy
personality an abnormal or unhealthy
personality it's not merely a matter of
subjective judgment it's a matter of not
being the sort of person that no one
else wants to be around and being
miserable and counter exactly okay now
you touched on something else that we
should delve into a little bit so
because this is very complicated you you
started to talk a little bit about
status okay okay so this is where it's
very important for psychologists to be
careful with their words because we tend
to talk a lot about dominance and status
and not enough about reputation and
responsibility and so let me outline
something and you tell me what you think
about it so it's very important for
people to be well situated in a social
hierarchy we want to have friends we
want to have people who love us we want
to have colleagues people who can
cooperate with us we want to have people
we can compete with as well peaceably
and productively and so it's very
important to us all the way down to a
deep physiological level that we well
regarded by our fellows and our
serotonin systems for example that
regulate our emotions seem to be acutely
sensitive to our position in a social
hierarchy but that's not exactly status
right it's more like reputation so even
with little kids if you're a 4-year-old
and you've learned to ra ulate your
emotions so you're not pathologically
self-centered and you can take turns you
can share and you can play other
children's games when it's their turn
you're going to make friends and if
you're very good at making friends and
you're fun to be around your reputation
is going to grow and that's going to
situate you well in the social Community
when you're an adult the same thing
applies although adults are also more
focused let's say on competence rather
than mere ability to play even though
that's important and so you can enhance
your reputation by being competent and
by being a fair player and that situates
you well socially you can also
manipulate that by using power and
dominance and false claims of competence
and status and so the reputation game
can degenerate into a power game but
that doesn't mean that the reputation
game is a power game and so I'm well
that's at least one way of looking at it
so I'm kind of curious about you know if
you feel that that's a
good definitional ground for our
conversation to continue if you've got
things to say about that for sure I mean
there's a lot to unpack there first off
is the challenge we have as people is we
don't know if we're going to live 50
minutes or 50 years so do you regulate
for just having a good time today or do
you try to do the long-term game and
most of us are trying to play for the
long
term if you regulate your emotions for
the short term for example get mad at
somebody so I scream at them or bully
them or I want attention so I go claim
attention or something if I do that it's
going to feel good for me in the short
term but in the long term I'm going to
ruin my relationship so it's going to
have a long-term cost and we have the
way I think we're kind of wired at least
in social psychology is we regulate
emotion before we regulate other things
so if I feel bad the tendency is like I
want to make that bad feeling go away
I'll go have a drink I'll go binge eat
I'll go watch watch TV or something
rather than I'll solve the fundamental
problem that's making me feel bad so
there's lots of these
challenges um the second thing I think
you're pointing out the difference in
reputation and status or dominance I
think is really important because you
can gain a reputation by being sort of a
uh kind of a showy big deal kind of the
narcissistic model you know the the
celebrity model or you can just be a
good person over a long long period of
time and in the leadership world this is
sort of like dominance versus Prestige
you know people either admire you and
they want to make you a leader or you
kind of dominate people so I think in
the status world there's sort of two
paths to status one is you be a good
person and people lift you up and the
other path is you kind of fight your way
sharp elbows to the top and make sure
people think you're a big deal control
the media make you know control the
message and all that so I think there's
a lot of there's a lot of conflict in
this Human Experience about this yeah
yeah well well so I interviewed friends
dewal um before he passed away in rather
untimely and a certainly unfortunate
Manner and I was really struck by his
work on chimp PES in relationship to the
kinds of things that we're discussing
because the classic view among even
among evolutionary biologists I would
say of the somewhat less sophisticated
sort and also of psychologists is that
the hierarchies that we live in the
social structures hierarchies because
there's limited access to resources and
people sort themselves out so that some
people get preferential access and a
functional hierarchy is one where the
more able people get preferential access
because that's good for everyone else
anyways the classic view is being that
the more
dominant say the more socially
successful especially male tends to be
more dominant and it's it's construed as
a power game but DeWall showed that even
among
chimpanzees the dominance route was you
might say a a suboptimal solution it
seemed better than being a subordinate
let's say so if you had to pick between
being weak and useless and strong and
mean and dominant from an evolutionary
perspective and maybe even from a
personal perspective it would be better
to take the dominance route but if you
could serve a more s phisticated role
than and and dewal pointed out that for
his Alpha chimps the ones that were
stable that was the role often a role of
Peacemaker and of reliable friend that
the alphas that dwall studied even among
chimpanzees were much their troops were
more functional and their rule was more
stable and less violent if they didn't
use dominance and this is this is a
finding of unbelievable importance right
because it's really crucial that we
understand these two Pathways to both
reproductive and personal success and
the dominance route is simpler and it's
more attractive at a surface level and
that's also partly why the narcissists
and the Psychopaths have a niche right
is that and so I would like to delve
into that so a narcissist as far as I'm
concerned and you tell me tell me what
you think about this so a narcissist
fundamentally is some someone who
manipulates to achieve unearned
reputational
status now so does that so I know that
needs to be fleshed out but that seems
to be to be something like at the core
of it and perhaps the reason that works
is because once you establish a social
hierarchy that's functional the higher
you are in the hierarchy the more
resources acre to you and for men in
particular that also involves
reproductive success because best
predictor of mate access for men is
relative position in a hierarchy it's a
huge predictor now you can mimic that as
a narcissist right you can you can make
a show of yourself you can display a a
confidence that would normally be
associated with competence but it's not
real but it's real enough to fool people
right it's real enough to fool naive
young women for example and it's re it's
real enough to allow you to maneuver
into positions of of of into high
resource positions so so so is that in
keeping with your conceptualization of
narcissism yeah let me there's so much
here I've got I'm gonna take this in
pieces um first I do think that idea of
unearned status is really important with
narcissism but there's also the case of
people and I'm thinking of Bill Clinton
in particular after he was president but
I'm sure it applies to president Trump
not picking parties here where you have
somebody that really is successful
really is competent and still has the
need for attention still has the need to
be admired even though they have all
those things so it's not necessarily
only unearned it's like hey I just want
attention whereas other people like you
know I go out there I do my best I just
want to go home with my family I don't
need the attention so I think it it it
can be people enjoy the earned attention
too to some extent but it always gets to
the point where you want more than you
deserve so there's an inflation
component with narcissism so I do think
that but I do think there are people who
are very competent and
narcissistic yeah okay that's a good
distinction so I want to go back to your
Alpha question because it's so
interesting um I was where it hit me I
was in South Africa looking at a group
of a gazelle of some sort with the guide
and I was watching the alpha running
around mate guarding and I said to my
guide I'm like what's going on here he
goes well he's the AL Al he has to spend
his life M guarding to make sure the
other guys don't come in I said how long
does he last in this role of an alpha he
goes well about a season and then he'll
die because your your cortisol's up and
in The Human Condition what we have a
reverse hierarchies I mean this is Freud
and totem and taboo this is essentially
the the the the tension in the human
system so if you're an alpha and you're
like I'm not working with the younger
guys the younger guys are going to band
together and take you out out and you're
going to have an unstable system in a
short-term Reign or short-term rule but
if as you say and and like France dwall
said is if you align the alpha with a
group of you know become The Peacemaker
work with the younger guys you're going
to be stable and have a more stable
Society so I I totally agree with that I
think this idea when I hear young guys
saying I want to be an Al I'm like
really are you sure like it's a being
Alpha is hard and then somebody takes
you out in a year you know not the not
the best long-term strategy yeah well
you see that with gang members I mean we
know something about the psychology of
gang members and it's clearly the case
that in gang members or among gang
members the more narcissistic aggressive
manipulative
Psychopathic types who are certainly
prone to turn to violence can rise but
their lifespan tends to be extremely
short and then they also adopt a an
attitude towards the world which is
associ assciated with a trunk truncated
temporal view which is I'm going to get
every goddamn thing I can get my hands
on right now and you know you can you
can understand the attractiveness of
that if the alternative is I never get
anything I want and I also die quickly
but it's not a very good solution when
you could be successful and productive
and that could span decades and also be
of service to other people you know we
we should point out too that this this
discussion that we're having it it
strikes to the core of cultural critique
as well because one of the things that
we see happening
continually I mean throughout human
history but I guess it's been Amplified
intellectually more since the time of
Marx is this insistence that male
sociological structures are oppressive
patriarchies and you know we we need to
take that apart because we could say at
a more sophisticated level that if the
male hirer deteriorates in the direction
of narcissistic power then it becomes an
oppressive patriarchy but if it's
bounded by the necessity of productive
iterable interactions of the sort that
Define let's say the walls peacemaking
chimps then there's nothing about the
patriarchy that's oppressive at all all
that means if it's oppressive that means
that it's not structured optimally
either for the people who are in the
positions of author Authority and
responsibility or for anybody else but
it but but the crucial issue here is
that it's certainly possible to
structure hierarchies of responsibility
so that they're not narcissistic and
dominance-based oh absolutely that's how
they mostly are I mean narcissistic
leaders when they get in power are
generally unstable people you know they
get one group of people who love them
another group of people who don't like
them uh again they they're tend to be
less ethical they tend to get taken out
it just takes some time for it to happen
so it's not a stable system and and it
can become toxic but a but a healthy
wellistic group of guys I mean guys get
together and they try to align towards a
goal so if I took a bunch of guys and
said let's go fight that monster over
there we'd all get together and fight
the monster and have a great time so
guys can work together if they're not
doing a bunch of ego stuff if they're
focused on
goals every year over 800,000 innocent
lives are lost to abortion in America
the Biden Harris administration's
policies don't just permit the ending of
unborn lives they actively punish those
who protect life with penalties of up to
10 years in jail but there's a way to
fight back in a world where the sanctity
of life is under assault pre-born
network of clinics stands as a Beacon of
Hope operating in areas with the highest
abortion rates and offering a Lifeline
to mothers facing unplanned pregnancies
their approach is simple yet powerful
introduce a woman to her baby through an
ultrasound and Surround her with
compassion here's where you come in your
support can make a tangible difference
for just $28 you can fund one ultrasound
doubling the chance of that precious
life being saved this isn't just about
statistics it's about giving every life
a fighting chance it's about standing up
for those who can't stand up for
themselves ready to make a difference
your tax deductible gift could be the
turning point in a Mother's decision and
a child's future make a donation today
by visiting pre-born
docomo or just dial pound 250 and say
the keyword baby where for just $28 you
can help Save A Life That's pre-born
docomo or dial pound 250 with keyword
[Music]
baby right right right well and it's
also the case that men who aren't
immature because then we'll go back to
the immaturity issue and who are goal
focused tend to organize
themselves in relationship to perceived
competence while pursuing that goal and
I I think you know one of the things
that's puzzled me for example is a a
Trope let's say that's very common in
American movies because it it it kind of
runs contrary to the apparent
presuppositions of something like
evolutionary biology so you can imagine
a football movie football team movie and
you can imagine a subplot being a
quarterback who overcomes the odds and
you know wins the championship game and
is is paraded out of the stadium on the
shoulders of his teammates so they're
all celebrating him right they're
they're pushing him up to the highest
position one of the consequences of that
is that he becomes much more radically
attractive to the cheerleaders let's say
and then you might ask well what the
hell's up with those males who are
putting this guy up on their shoulders
because they seem to be taking a
reproductive hit with their celebration
of his ability but I suspect that the
Cory to that is something like well if
you're a man and you associate with the
group that's run by a very productive
winner let's say then the glory also
descends on you and so it's you think
that's a reasonable hypothesis
absolutely you know and in social
psychology we call this basking and
reflected Glory or buring um and that's
even if if my team wins so if ug wins a
basketball or a footb Championship I go
hey we won I feel great but if it's my
own team and I'm on it yes you
definitely get esteem and status from
being associated with great people I
mean it's it's a win right right so
that's well so that's another indication
of why the patriarchy is not uh
pathological at its core if it's
structured properly because that what
that that's such an optimistic view
because it means that you can structure
a sociological organization around a
goal and we going to assume the goal is
you know at least mutually chosen by all
the participants that the best man will
rise to win but it's not a zero sum game
for the rest of the players quite the
contrary and you can see that with
hunting I think is the best example
among hunter gatherers so from what I've
read the anthropological literature any
given Hunter even if he's the best
hunter in the tribe has an overwhelming
probability of failing at any given hunt
and so what the men do is they
distribute The Spoils of hunts across
multiple hunts and it's generally
incumbent on the best hunter especially
when he has a successful day not to take
the best cuts for himself and also not
to claim credit for the hunt to
distribute the best cuts and to be
humble in his claims and I think the
reason for that I think this a very
compelling idea fundamentally the reason
for that is well you want to have a
bunch of guys to hunt with all the time
and if you turn out to be not only
highly skilled but also like generous to
a fault people are going to be thrilled
to go out and hunt with you because
everybody wins and that's a really good
long-term game absolutely yeah and I
always the example I always use is you
know in in sports going back to football
if I'm a quarterback and I win and I get
on TV and say yeah I won because I'm
awesome I'm the best there is the next
game my front Line's going to let the
defense in and I'm going to get
slaughtered
and so and so the next time I win I'm
going to say I want to thank God and my
and my offensive line they're the best
they have those guys are great and I'm
going to give the status and the glory
to them and they're going to help me
next time and we're going to set up a
virtual a virtuous cycle where I I don't
get to be a super I don't get to brag as
much but I'm I win and I get all those
benefits and and I get more than if I
took the credit basically because in the
long term I win right well so I think
that's why it's such a crucial part of
socialization especially for young
competitive boys to tell them well don't
be a whiny loser you know and certainly
don't distribute blame like if you're
going to take credit as a team player
especially if you're a star take credit
for the losses and distribute the and
distribute the glory and you might say
well that seems counterproductive
because why shouldn't all the glory go
to me and the answer is well do you want
to be glorious for one game or your
whole bloody career yes it's a high it's
the long-term strategy is to share the
glory with everybody else out there so
they help you win because most things in
life are a team sport Science is a team
sport most things are team sports you
can't do it on your own and if you don't
have a good team they're going to
they're going to drop you or stab you in
the back or frag you or whatever the
term is right right well and the game
has to iterate across multiple M
multiple uh instantiations as well which
is also crucially important so okay I
want to turn the conversation slightly I
want to I want to focus at least in part
on fleshing out exactly what narcissism
consists of but there's two directions I
guess I'd like to take the conversation
the first is we talked a little bit
about leadership he and so the the thing
about leadership that's that's a paradox
and and this also pertains to female
mate selection I would say is that you
you kind of want someone in a leadership
position often who has the personality
traits that might tilt towards
narcissism
so an extroverted person is going to be
charismatic and able to communicate and
want to work in groups and a
disagreeable person is going to be
competitive and victory focused but a
disagreeable extrovert is going to tilt
towards narcissism so that's a problem
for you know occupations like Media or
entertainment or politics because it's
going to attract a disproportionate
number of extroverted disagreeable
extroverts now it seems to me that one
of the mediating personality factors
there is probably trait
conscientiousness right so if you have a
extroverted guy who's competitive and
disagreeable and so that would define
trump for example if he's someone who
can commit and keep his word and stay
focused on long-term goals that should
take the truly pathological edge off the
narcissism and my my sense of the
literature that's at the Nexus of
Personality social and clinical is that
it's the like the psychopathic types
look to me to be extroverted
disagreeable types who are extremely low
and conscientious 100% they're like
impulsive narcissists yeah I I yeah I
mean I think of the two as cousins but
if if you're a disagre and I like that
disagreeable extrovert model of
narcissism because think it captures
that profile really well and a lot of
people in Academia you've got to be kind
of antagon istic if you're going to
argue with people you know if you're too
if you're too agreeable it's hard to do
it but if you have that
conscientiousness you have morals you
have long-term goals you have duties you
have responsibilities you're going to be
a decent person I you know allegedly um
if you're impulsive and you and you're
just doing what you want you're going to
be more Psychopathic and self-centered
and selfish and so when you look at the
personality profile Big Five profile of
psychopathy versus narcissism the big
distinction is going to be the the lower
uh conscientiousness with psychopathy
yeah okay okay well so then we could
also think about that with regards to
socialization because so I was worked
with a research team in Montreal very
good team run by um now his name is
escape me it'll pop into my mind right
away um I interviewed him on my YouTube
channel worked with him for 10 years but
I have a hole in my head with regards to
names it'll come back to me but one of
the things that we established when we
were looking at the developmental course
of maturation so tell me what you think
about this so it seems to me that a lot
of what we see as
narcissism is actually something like
prolonged prolonged immaturity now it's
a little more complicated than that so
the little kids that we studied and and
this is true of those who've studied
little kids in general so there's about
5% of males at the age of
two who hit kick bite and steal when you
put them with other
two-year-olds and they're almost all
male and there's only one in 20 and so
you could say most two-year-olds aren't
Psychopathic
narcissists by by temperament so these
are probably the boys who are
disagreeable extroverts by temperament
right and so they're competitive they're
pushy and they're as when they're very
young they're impulsive now most of them
are socialized by the age of four now
our studies of long-term criminality
indicated that it was the minority of
that 5% who weren't socialized by the
age of four that became the long-term
predatory criminals and it was very
difficult to do anything about that
after the age of four but that's also
made me think more recently that what
we're seeing as that narcissistic
predatory parasitism is probably
something like a failure of maturation
it's like rather than being a pathology
in and of itself it's just the
maintenance of self-centered immaturity
far beyond its expiry date and so I'm
wondering what what you think of a
formulation like that I like that idea
and that there is a immaturity to
narcissism um I just to take it in a
little bit of a Freudian Direction it
seems you can think you know if you
think about it in terms of of sort of
Freud's developmental model the the
narcissist is like being stuck in the
phallic stage a little bit rather than
being stuck in say the oral stage or
anal stage so I don't think it's just
there can be different types of being
immature I think that right right right
it's not dependent for example yeah it's
not you're not a dependent not like I
just need someone to take care of me I'm
50 years old it's more you get stuck in
this ad like I should say adolescent
this childish phallic masculine I'm
going to do this I'm going to get this
and and you get stuck in that
and that model you know you can use it
as an adult but it's kind of like a
you're a little bit of a cartoon and so
that's something I see that's it's it's
like you're a cartoon child acting like
an adult like I'm a big deal like the
guys that try to be Alpha and I'm like
yeah dude um so yeah I do see I Cal down
there yeah calm down come on um so I do
see that for sure but I I do think it's
a it's sort of One path in development
that that you don't develop it's not all
the paths yeah yeah well I think that's
a good distinction because it it it it
it shines a light on another
sociological or psychological phenomena
so one of the things that we see um is
the rise to a certain type of stardom of
people like Andrew
Tate and the Andrew Tate phenomenon has
really interested me because I have some
sympathy for him now it's limited but
it's limited in the way that you just
described so you could imagine that the
worst form of immaturity the most
counterproductive form of immaturity
would be something like well the
Freudian oral stage if we reformulated
that in more modern terminology that
would be something like prolonged
infantile immaturity so you're basically
stuck as a dependent right and so you
have no Lo all your Locust of control is
external all you do is whine to get
people to deliver to you what you want
now that's perfectly acceptable if
you're 6 months old although you could
even use smiling at that point and as an
invitation but but then you might
imagine that if you are stuck at that
dependent stage and you have a impulse
for M maturation if someone who was more
narcissistic and aggressive came along
they would actually look attractive to
you because first of all it would be
better to be it's better to be a
narcissist extrovert than it is to be a
dependent infant that doesn't mean it's
good right but it it does mean that it's
better yeah well and you could think
about that from an evolutionary
biological perspective too because it's
definitely the case that manipulative
Psychopaths can be successful in
finding sexual partners whereas
infantile dependent men they're just not
going anywhere on that side of things
because they can't like no women
virtually no women are attracted to
infantile dependent men some women are
attracted to narcissistic blo Hearts
right so yeah then is that in keeping
with your understanding of the
developmental progression yeah I mean I
think that I think it makes sense and I
like how you're saying that like look
dude it's better to be narcissistic and
full of yourself if you're a guy than
just be a dependent loser but that isn't
the highest stage of male development
isn't being a peacock you you know it's
it's it's helping it's being a provider
it's being do it's doing more than that
it's leading the family it's leading
people so um I but again it is better to
be narcissistic than just dependent so
yeah it makes sense oh you mentioned
Andrew Tate and I it's not I'm kind of
old for this but I see a lot of younger
guys that are attracted to this more
sort of Alpha and quotes personality
model and I understand it too because
they're not getting a lot of really good
male role models out there so they see
one that looks sort of cartoonish and
seems functional and seems to have some
agency and seems to be navigating life
effectively in a way that would be
appealing to a 15-year-old guy and so I
understand it I just wish we had better
role models you know but I understand it
might also be well it might also be that
there is a a time at which that's
actually developmentally appropriate so
you know one one of the things we found
in our in our analysis of the
development of Psychopathology so
imagine with uh teenagers okay imagine
there's two patterns of rule three
patterns of of living with the rules say
when you're 13 to 15 and you're a male
now it also applies to females but less
so because they're not as aggressive but
so imagine that you're a 13 to
15-year-old male who never breaks a rule
ever okay now imagine you're 13
15-year-old and you break a rule all the
time and then imagine that you're
somewhere in the middle okay so that's
the whole distribution well the the
males who never break a rule they are at
higher risk for dependent personality
disorder for depression and anxiety
later in life now the ones on the other
end of the spectrum are much more at
risk for Lifetime criminality let's say
in substance abuse violence and all that
so there's pathology associated with
both extreme with regards to rules now
the kids in the middle they are going to
experiment and so now you could imagine
that if you're a kid who comes from a
good home and you're pretty rule
oriented there might well be a time
between the ages of 13 and 15 or 16
something like that where it's actually
appropriate for you to admire the rule
Breakers to some degree because that's
one of the things that pops you out of
that childhood dependence on your
parents right but hopefully you would
supersede that as you mature and that is
the pattern for most men right I mean
criminality drops off like mad around 25
and so does substance abuse something
like that and that's often when men who
are like men women like men four to five
years older and so it makes sense that
it's about 25 or so that Men start to
get their act together and that's when
they take that step beyond the more
narcissist to can showy aspects of
masculinity and take on these roles that
are oriented towards a longer time span
and a broader social Horizon what you're
making me think of is the classic You
Know Jack blocks work on on you know
drug use in the in Berkeley back in the
70s it was the people who didn't use any
and use too much they got into trouble
and then there's this gold golden mean
in the middle and you see that golden
mean in a lot of things where you know
you you you want to have a little Edge
but not too much Edge you want you don't
want to be perfectly moral but you don't
want to be immoral there's always that
little bit of Edge and you're right
developmentally I think it's appropriate
for young guys to kind of go to that
little darker side for a while
maybe are you tired of feeling sluggish
run down or just not your best self take
control of your health and vitality
today with balance of nature with
balance of nature there's never been a
more convenient dietary supplement to
ensure you get a wide variety of fruits
and vegetables every day balance of
nature takes fruits and vegetables they
freeze dry them turn them into a powder
and then they put them into a capsule
the capsules are completely void of
additives fillers extracts synthetics
pesticides or added sugar the only thing
in balance of nature fruit and veggie
capsules are fruits and veggies right
now you can order with promo code Jordan
to get 35% off your first order plus get
a free bottle of fiber and spice
experience balance of nature for
yourself today go to balance ofn
nature.com and use promo code Jordan for
35% off your first order as a preferred
customer plus get a free bottle of fiber
and spice that's balance of nature.com
promo code Jordan for 35% off your first
preferred order plus a free bottle of
fiber and
spice yeah yeah they well they've got to
explore it and you know one of my
children my son was more disagreeable
than my daughter and he was a pushy
little rat and one of the consequences
of that was he became extremely socially
skilled and I think the reason for that
and I watched him do this is because he
was really good at dancing on the edge
you know he he wanted to push and this
is a characteristic of assertive and
competitive male Behavior he wanted to
push all the time to find out well what
he could get away with but also exactly
where the rules were and there there is
a kind of exploratory behavior in that
pushiness right because if you're
passive you're not going to make those
fine distinctions now it means that boys
especially the more aggressive boys are
are much more difficult to socialize and
that's why they need a father for
example and go off the rails so badly if
they don't have one and it also may be
why that it's not a good idea to have an
education system that you know is male
absent entirely not least because you
get the formulation of of male gangs but
even that's somewhat of a socialization
process because I would say generally in
male groups like the dependent guys get
a real rough time right so the males
will gang up on them in some ways and
try to shame them
into accepting a certain amount of
maturation but they also do the same
thing to the narcissistic guys right and
and Military organizations when they're
not fascist are particularly good at
that sort of thing but sports teams as
well right is like if you are the
showboat especially if you don't have
the requisites like if you're a genius
people might put up with you being more
narcissistic but otherwise the guys are
going to take the edges off you pretty
quickly for being such a pain in the
neck yeah the old uh my friend Lenny
Martin used to study Hunter G gatherers
but he'd always the way he'd describe it
in you know these groups that you'd have
a guy who was sort of narcissistic
Psychopathic maybe stealing maybe's you
know hooking up with people's uh
Partners or something they'd take him
out hunting and there'd be a hunting
accident and he wouldn't come back or
they'd go to the guy's family and say
hey get you got to get rid of this guy
and there'd be an accident and that
would be the end of them so they they
would eliminate people who are
Psychopathic in these groups but if
things if times wer stable things change
the Psychopaths would do pretty well but
yeah guys don't want guys like that
around they'll take them out if they can
if they don't add value the Psychopaths
that that's another interesting element
of narcissistic psychopathy too because
this will get us into a more complex
conversation so you know I've been
looking at the developing literature on
short-term versus long-term mating
strategies in men and i' I've been
particularly interested in this in
relation to the sexual Revolution
because in principle
what the sexual Revolution did with its
decrease of strictures of of sexual
behavior but also the provision of of
hypothetically uh what functional birth
control is it made it less risky for
women to engage in short-term sexual
behavior okay but there's a question
that comes up along with that that's a
very interesting one so you know in the
in the broad biological community there
are two types of mating pattern right
there's the r Strat and the K strategy
and the r strategy types have zero
investment in their offspring they
produce a lot of Offspring sometimes
millions or even more but almost all of
them die there's no PO postcoidal
investment and then on the other side
there are human beings where it's few
Offspring very very high investment but
within human beings that same
distribution applies yeah well so
there's a developing literature which
you may be well aware of L identifying
the personality traits of the short-term
maters and the short-term male maters
are dark tetrad types they're
narcissistic Psychopathic mellian and
sadistic which is you know a nice
addition to the to the group and so this
is a very interesting this is a very
interesting uh development as well as
far as I'm concerned because it does
seem to imply that as you tilt a society
towards sexual Freedom let's say on the
hedonistic side
it looks to me like you deliver the
women over to the short-term mating
males and they have those personality
characteristics that we just described
Absol yes that seems like a bad idea I
would say I would say you're Pro I would
say you are correct um from the work
I've done on narcissism and
relationships which is pretty s
significant you find narcissism predict
short-term mating um you find
narcissists are more extroverted so
they're more attractive they're more
attractive when you me this grandio
narcissism so when you meet people
narcissistic they're more attractive
they spend more time grooming so they
look better when they're mating um
they're also willing to cheat on their
spouse so even if you're in a steady
relationship if you're narcissistic
you're like well I can go cheat on the
side that'll be okay they they tend to
Alternative Partners more than other
people so there's all these different
mechanisms in place that mean that if
there's a lot of short-term mating going
on the people doing it are going to be
over represented by narcissists and on
the apps you're going to find the same
thing yeah well so this is that I'm so
interested in this because it seems to
me to lay out a
plausible Pathway to to doing something
like solving the is a problem with
regards to sexual morality because like
there a real serious question arose
let's say at the beginning of the 60s
right it's a it's a question that might
be the entire reason for the culture War
there probably more but it's a big one
it's like um okay so now women have the
pill all right so that makes them very
different than women before the pill
like radically different because now
they're the first females that have ever
existed that have voluntary control over
their reproductive function so that's a
huge deal okay so what does that mean it
means well it means the definition of
woman itself has to be rekind
rejigged okay now does it mean that
women can tilt towards the same more
propagate reproductive strategy that men
use because that could be an outcome in
fact that's the promise of the sexual
Revolution essentially but it looks to
me like the consequence of that is that
women turn themselves over to the
immature narcissistic self-grooming
showy men who can't commit who don't
want a long-term relationship who don't
make good Fathers because well they're
not very likely to stick around for
example and so so so then like I think
we're at the point already perhaps and
i' like your view on this that one of
the things that psychologists can tell
young women is that the shorter term
mating strategy game you play the more
likely you are to end up in the hands of
a psychopathic partner absolutely that
is if you're if you're going for
short-term mating the other people
involved they're going to be less
agreeable less interested in deep
emotional connection and they're going
to be more interested in their own power
and pleasure from sexual Conquest which
means you're going to get more
narcissists and Psychopaths that's just
it's just like the math of the situation
yes yeah okay and I'm not approved in
any way I mean this is literally just
the math of when you set things up this
way this is what you're going to get
it's like saying hey I meet guys at bars
I'm like well the people you meet at a
bar are going to be different than you
meet at the at the charity picnic just a
different selection of people yeah well
It's Tricky for Wom women too because
you know they also have this additional
problem which is
that the dependent hyper obedient losers
are all also going to be the nice guys
who are hanging around the nice
situations and that's not all that's
also not a good deal for them right but
but it is the the psychopathic end of it
is quite frightening because well you
know the literature when when when
personality psychologists started to
investigate subclinical psychopathy and
develop the dark Triad formulation right
so that was narcissistic so wanting
unearned social status mellian
manipulative and Psychopathic which is
predatory and parasitical that's a
pretty bad combination yes right and
they were the ones but it wasn't bad
enough this is the thing that's so
terrifying because further investigation
showed that that formulation wasn't
complete till you added sadism which was
positive Delight in the unnecessary
suffering of others and so what women
have understand is that you know you're
not only turning yourself over to the uh
you know excitement seeking narcissistic
self-centered guys I mean that might be
bad enough but if you're also turning
yourself over to the sadists which seems
to be the case because those four things
are pretty tightly Associated then
you're really looking for a spot of
positive misery and so if that isn't
what you're pursuing you know you might
want to temper your thrill seeking with
the idea that hanging about the
psychopathic predatory parasites is
probably not the world's best idea uh
yeah and the and the sism is scary I
mean you've the old research where
they'd see if people would you know
grind bugs in a coffee grinder or
something it was like grinding pill bugs
I mean this the sadism is you know
really dark it's taking pleasure in
people suffering um I think the
challenge for women is they are
attracted to guys who have confidence
and ambition and seem like they have a
direction and you run into guys are like
I'm a nice guy and I go I don't know if
you're nice so much as you're kind of a
loser and you know and so the problem is
if you're selecting for guys who are
ambitious half those ambitious guys are
going to be pretty nice guys and half of
them are going to be kind of
self-centered and maybe more problematic
and it's hard to know the difference so
it's very hard for women out there well
this is also why the the well the
evidence also suggest that it's the
younger and less experienced women who
are more likely to fall for the
machinations of the psychopathic
Predators because they can't distinguish
between competence confidence and false
confidence yeah cuz because you're young
and the other thing with narcissism and
you see this a lot is when you first
meet people when you first start dating
the way our culture works as we go from
sort of fun relationships that are
exciting to deep and emotional
relationship ships and so at that fun
stage the people who are narcissistic
are just more attractive like if I meet
somebody who's really narcissistic I'm
like God this person's fun we'll go out
drinking it'll be great and then later
on I'm like we want to really have a
high trust relationship it's the wrong
person so our whole system is designed
to put people with people that are more
narcissistic and not people who are
going to be good in the long term just
where our system works yeah yeah well
there's another complexity there that
you pointed to as well which is that um
and we could make this rule of thumb
it's like um all almost all losers will
attempt to passs off as nice guys but
that and I mean the infantile dependent
types I'm not infantile independent I'm
nice well so some nice guys are
competent but all infantile losers
except those whove Fallen completely off
the edge of the world and are resentful
beyond belief they're going to pass them
eles off As Nice Guys now if you're
hanging around with the predatory
Psychopaths even in the initial
short-term stages of a relationship
you're not going to have to contend with
the false nice guy problem right and
that's a major problem because what
woman in her right mind wants a
dependent man that's like you might as
well just have a child right at least
the child has an excuse and so by being
attracted to the more dominating types
you solve the nice guy problem but the
next problem is that you throw your hand
yeah okay okay that that is very well
put you solve the dependent problem but
you get the psychopath problem so you
solve one problem but you end up with
another problem and and I think this is
so important because I I get tired of
guys saying you know I'm a nice guy I'm
like really you out doing charity work
every week do you do you run a you down
at the you down at the church every week
putting together the kids camp because I
bet if you were doing that women would
find you attractive I bet you're just
kind of weak
it would be easy to toss all of your
discipline to the side for the summer
but a life of greatness doesn't happen
by taking the easy route the hall app
offers an incredible range of guided
meditations and prayers which are
designed to help you deepen your
spirituality and strengthen your
connection to God for the third year in
a row hallow is having their wildly
popular Saints in 7 Days prayer
challenge where over the course of four
weeks you'll Journey Through the life of
an incredible Saint learning more about
their faith story and Ultimate Surrender
to the will of God in their life the
challenge will kick off August 5th with
Joe Missoula the coach of the Celtics
and St Sebastian the patron saint of
athletes then Rio Wahlberg will lead
meditations on the life of St Elizabeth
sattin followed by Jonathan roomy
walking through the powerful story of St
maximilan kby who sacrificed his own
life for the life of another at aitz
closing the series with Father David
Michael Moses and blessed Pierre Georgio
fradi Saints in seven days goes deep
into the Lesser known parts of a Saints
life to show that while their Journeys
to sainthood were filled with God's
grace and Glory they also included human
struggles great suffering mistakes and a
profound need for God's mercy download
the hall app today at hall.com Jordan
for an exclusive 3-month trial that's
hall.com
Jordan well that that's a really good
that's a really good point and that's
actually something practical that the
women well and the men for that matter
who are listening to this might
understand too so so let's let's say
that you know you do you're a woman and
you do happen to cross a nice guy and
now you're wondering well is he nice or
is he just weak right in that in that
way that nche criticized right when he
said that most morality is cowardice and
he didn't mean that morality was
cowardice he meant that cowards use
morality as a disguise okay so now
you're trying to sort that out if you're
a woman so I think you do exactly what
you just did which is to say okay you're
uh Paragon of moral virtue where's the
proof right the work proof and that
would be the sacrificial proof like what
are you doing that's extremely difficult
that indicates your commitment to these
high moral standards and that can't just
be ideological hand waving which is the
easiest thing to get away with it has to
be real real indication of commitment
yes I like that and the sacrifice part
yeah yeah yeah you have to pay a price
for it you have to pay a price I had a
buddy who donated a kidney and I thought
my goodness you should put that on your
dating app you know because that's sort
of a an honest signal of being a good
person um but but there's a lot of false
signals of being a good person as well
well that's worth delving into too
because a lot of I think a huge part of
what we're seeing in the guise of the
culture war is actually not a political
issue so I'm going to flesh something
out and you tell me what you think about
it so um we know perfectly well that the
the core of cluster B Psychopathology
let's say which is where the narcissists
fit is these narcissistic patterns that
we've described but there's there is the
other element that we've touched on one
is the willingness to Proclaim yourself
a victim and to take advantage of that
but also the desire to Masquerade with
false moral
virtue right and so that's it's a very
sneaky game because the game is well
everything for me
but I'm going to portray myself as hyper
virtuous and I think what we see in the
political realm is that the psychopathic
predatory types who I think are enabled
online by the way because they can't be
held responsible for their actions they
take the moral claims of Any Given
political group left or right and they
they steal those and make them
emblematic of their own virtue and then
they hide in the political realm as
exemplars of those ideals but all and
that doesn't matter whether it's
rightwing or leftwing in this
formulation all that does is give them
false social status and enable them to
pick off the spoils and so and I'm I'm
afraid I'm really am afraid and you can
tell me what you think about this so you
know the way we protect ourselves
against the predatory Psychopaths and
the narcissists in the real world is
that we don't play with them more than
once or twice
right it's like if I'm going to trust
which is a good default attitude in a
stable Society then you can screw me
over once and that's the price I pay for
trusting but all remember because people
do remember and maybe you can even take
advantage of me two or three times but
after that it's like no nothing I'm okay
so I reputation track and because I know
who you are you can't get away with your
shenanigans yes the problem it looks to
me like the problem online is that you
can do whatever the hell you want with
no repercussions whatsoever and your
identity can't be tracked and so I've
thought about this sociologically like
it looks to me like in times of Crisis
let's say the Russian Revolution or the
French Revolution what happens is that
the the underground Psychopathic
narcissistic predatory types like 4% of
the population they're never very
successful and they're never very
organized and they like chaos because
they can get away with their tricks when
it's chaotic and so they're always
hoping for chaos now and then situations
become unstable and they can gang
together and then like they just destroy
everything and I'm very concerned at the
moment that the way that we've organized
our new Social Media communication
platforms enables the Psychopaths to
organize and and I'm really seeing this
on the right right now you know like the
left has done this for a long time and
it's very pathological the radical left
but right now now like we're seeing a
terrible rise in like the Neo-Nazi
narcissist mouthpieces and it's just
it's happening so quickly it's
terrifying it's very powerful online
Force but but what seems to happen and
everyone needs to be aware of this is
that the psychopathic Predator types
hijack the language of the political
debate they acrew the morality of either
side because both sides make moral
claims and they and they benefit from
that and the rest of us suffer
dreadfully and the fact that we're so
much of the discourse is driven by
Anonymous narcissists we even know that
from the literature because the people
who are manipulating the social media
landscape the anonymous troll types are
the dark tetrad types that's that's
reasonably well established in the
psychological literature now so well it
well so I'm wondering what you think
about that well there's I mean I think
what you find is that people who are
more narciss istic Psychopathic are more
likely to be I mean we have data they're
more likely to be trolls online they're
more likely to be antagonistic online
but then if you add to that anonymity so
you take sort of that that natural
personality disposition and make people
Anonymous people when they're Anonymous
or just generally they do more of
whatever they're going to do yeah and if
it's a bad thing they do worse and this
is the old social py like kids with
costumes take more candy and you know or
they'll give more electric shocks or
people driving in a car flipping each
other off and honking but they never do
it in person because they're Anonymous
so the anonymity that Shield just makes
everything more extreme uh it could also
make people love each other more if
you're at a rave or something I guess or
the old dark room study but generally
online it leads to this more problematic
Behavior so I think it's a combination
of the personality traits plus
anonymity and generally in a in a a
small town where everybody knows
everybody you can't be that narcissistic
you'll get shut down everyone's going to
see it they know who you are you can't
fool people you go to a big city you can
fool people you go online which is the
biggest city you can fool more people so
yeah I think it's built into the
structure yeah yeah yeah yeah okay well
that and yeah it's very much worth
emphasizing the anonymity issue because
you know we like to think that the way
we regulate our behavior is with
something like a super ego right
something like or a conscience something
like an internal constraint and you know
there's there's truth in that although
we all have our weak points where our
own constraints internal constraints
might not be as robust as they should be
right in the weakest part of our
personality but I also think it's very
dangerous for us to overestimate the
degree to which our morality is a
consequence of our internal control like
I think mostly the reason that people
behave is because they're socialized
enough they can take turns enough
they're uh altruistic enough so that
other people can stand having them
around and now they're in a dynamic
social environment and that means that
every time they air they get corrected
almost immediately and so they can
Outsource that now the as you point out
when you make people Anonymous they do
misbehave very rapidly much worse and so
that strips away that social control and
so and then you add to that as you
pointed out breadth of reach and maybe
even the fact that the social media
networks incentivize attention seeking
because why wouldn't they and you have
the makings of a perfect storm like my
sense is that that alone everything that
we just described right that proclivity
to dark tetrad traits plus the anonymity
and the reach that might be enough in
and of itself to account for like the
vast majority of the political
polarization that characterizes the
current discourse in the west it's
literally a consequence of attention
seeking narcissists ramping up the
social
discourse yeah I I think you could be
right I you know when they built social
media the point I try to make with
people sometimes is the way they built
it was it it's not like a highway system
where they plan the connections all they
did was say hey connect away and the
people who built those connections were
the people who were narcissistic and
attention seeking um sometimes they were
instrumental they wanted to make money
or whatever but those are the so they
built you know they built social media
on the back of attention seeking in on
the back of egotism that's the currency
is ego and the stuff that's transmitted
is high emotional content High anger
sometimes humor so you have a you have a
system that you know built by people
with egos that transmits things that
have a lot of emotional content and a
lot of anger and what do you expects
going to happen everyone's going to hate
each other I mean well it's also
maximized well it's also optimized and
this is also terrifying it's optimized
and you might say this about the net
period it's also optimized to grip
short-term
attention and so you know you you given
our discussion already we we kind of
associated maturity with the ability to
regulate your present Behavior because
of the future and because of other
people and that's a long-term game like
a long-term mating strategy and there's
nothing about that moment to moment that
is Rife with enthusiastic excitement
even the excitement of Rage let's say
right because it's a it's a calmer more
mature long-term game and you know maybe
it's the great responsible adventure of
your life but the net maximizes for the
grip of short-term attention and so now
we have we have a three-way storm it's
like while the narcissists and the
sadists rule that's optimized by the
social media algorithms but even more
importantly the only thing that matters
is capturing someone's
attention now now and so right now and
so what that seems to do what it seems
to mean is that we've created an
environment where the mindset of an
immature
narcissist is reinforced yes constant
like I mean constantly algorithmically
with the AI systems yeah right and so
because they're maximizing for
short-term attention so
that's it's kind of like is you know if
you're in a classroom and you're a kid
that you have to listen to the noisiest
and most obnoxious person in the room
all the
time that's an interesting metaphor so
imagine we're in a giant classroom but
we run it like Twitter or whatever and
so whoever says the the meanest loudest
thing is the person the teacher says
focus on that person and what happens to
your class you end up with just this
cycle of people just getting worse and
worse to get attention and you have it
it just collapses you have a you
have yeah very yeah well I'm well you
know well we've seen too online you know
there have been games like literal games
multiplayer games that had to be shut
down because they degenerated into chaos
so the rules of the game weren't
structured to allow long-term iterative
social play so it was a degenerating
game and it could easily be like it's
way more difficult to create a long-term
iterating game that improves than a
short-term game that degenerates like
there's a million ways to do that right
and it's so it easily could be if you
think about Facebook if you think about
Twitter Instagram Tik Tok maybe Tik Tok
worse worst of all these could easily be
non-sustainable games that that will
degenerate into complete chaos because
of the implicit pathology of their Rules
of Engagement it's highly probable right
it makes sense that they would do that
yeah well right because it's easier for
that to happen yeah because you have to
get the
reinforcement rules correct and the
problem with that is we actually don't
know how to do that explicitly you know
like where's the dividing line between
allowable speech and let's say hate
crime like obviously there's hateful
speech obviously right and purposefully
so now that doesn't mean we know
formally how to regulated in
environments that are maximizing
short-term attentional grip for example
not at all no that these systems are not
they're not welld designed for
psychological growth and they're not
going it's not like Facebook's trying to
get somewhere like we're trying to get
to a place where everybody's happier
everybody's better or ex is trying to
get to a place where everyone knows
everything I mean there's no goal it's
just everyone's living in the moment all
the time and I am guilty as charge
instead of spending the day reading
ancient books that have been around for
a couple thousand years that have proven
their benefit I'll spend the day
scrolling on X that's a problem so
guilty is charged yeah yeah well it is
it is remarkably addictive it's
remarkably addictive because I've also
found you know there's been a shift in
my reading habits I am
well I guess partly because it's it's
more effortful to read a classic you
know and so especially if I'm tired it's
easy to default to the and it I think
it's I don't know maybe you have the
same problem I'm kind of an information
omnivore and at X at least is what uh
fire hose of at least pseudo information
yeah yeah and the other thing you bring
up there is kind of classic for
self-regulation is we have the best
intentions in mind and we have goals of
what we want to do but when we're tired
or
distracted they kind of fall we kind of
go down the level and you're like yeah I
really want to keep my diet but maybe
I'll eat a you know a burrito and you
know I really want to read The Book of
Enoch but maybe I'll just scroll through
X and see what's going on and it's just
much easier to do stuff when you're
tired yeah yeah yeah definitely well
okay so let me shift gears momentarily
and then I want to return to definitions
of narcissism and let you flesh that out
a bit you recently taught a course for
Peterson Academy and so thank you very
much for that I thought I could update
you a little bit about what's going on
just so you know and so everybody else
knows we have about 30,000 students now
wow and so yeah it it it it took off
like mad so we've been we we did a
pre-enrollment for three weeks and so
that that was the enrollment so far so
we're thrilled about that now people
seem very happy with the course
offerings so and you know we've set up
the social media platform on Peterson
Academy to have a goal right the goal is
for people to be able to exchange
information related to their
self-improvement on the educational side
and so far it's functioning that way and
the fact that people have to pay
essentially $500 a year to join also
keeps the trolls and the Bots and the
bad corporate actors pretty much down to
zero so one of the problems actually
with well exactly well so one of the
problems with the social media pathology
might merely be that it's free right
because any because people's attention
is so valuable that if it's distributed
for free the psychopaths are going to
take like glorious advantage of that in
a major way and that's another problem
with the way these games are set up now
so so anyways Peterson Academy is going
extraordinarily well and um we we're
going to expand it rapidly because now
that we have
30,000 enroles we have enough Capital to
put all of the plans that we formulated
into practice so first of all thank you
for agreeing to teach a course and uh
you're more than welcome in all
likelihood to teach another because we
would like our you know our star
lectures to participate over the long
run you'll get your account information
on the 9th of September and that'll
enable you to use the social media
Network to interact with students and so
we're hoping you know and and also to
start publicizing your own course for
example which which you know would also
be well helpful to you and helpful to us
and so and hopefully helpful to the
students so we're really excited about
that and we do hope that we've cracked
the we're going to see to what degree
we've cracked the pathological social
network problem because it has a goal
has all the features of the other social
media networks but it has a goal and it
has a gate and you know we're going to
impose relatively high standards for
interpersonal Behavior so like you would
at a university if it was functioning
properly right so you know we'll see if
we can manage that but but so I I'm
curious about your experience lecturing
you went you were recorded at Miami what
was it like to go down there to do a
course and and well I'll tell you I I
only do things with people I like that
are interesting at this age so um your
team and gave me the opportunity said
you could talk about whatever you want
and uh we'll be nice to you which was
wonderful um which I really appreciated
and so my experience was you have an
incredible crew down there the
production value is the best production
value I've ever been involved with I
mean it's incredible I don't know if
people know but it's a it's a giant
Warehouse painted white where you're
doing this performance and then they
come in and add a bunch of work and post
production I mean it's incredible what
you're doing so my perspective is I
appreciate you giving me a shot to do a
lecture I really wanted to do and spend
you know eight hours or whatever
covering the topic and really doing what
I wanted with a great team and a great
audience I'm very excited to see how it
turns out because again I really respect
the production value and and I'm glad
you've made some money on it so you can
do some more yeah well so so uh if at
the Peterson Academy site even with it
on an account you can see the trailers
and yours is one of them because yours
is one of the 18 courses that we're
launching with we have about 30 more
already filmed and about 50 in the
pipelines so and so that's looking
extremely good like our our production
pipeline four courses a month is what
we're going to aim at and we figure
we've got that filled already a year out
so that's really exciting you can you
can see the trailers um at Peterson
academy.com but one of the things that
you might know and but people who are
listening might be or watching might be
interested in too is the trailers
actually look like the courses like
they're not hyped you know we we spent a
tremendous amount of time in
post-production making sure that they
were edited very carefully and
beautifully and that the white space is
filled with well appropriate text and
appropriate images and and so the whole
thing is very aesthetically pleasing and
that's really been fun to it's so fun to
be able to take somebody who wants to
lecture about something like yourself
and then to to raise the production
standards to the same level as the
content and then to do the same thing
with the imagery and the and the text
and that seems to have worked out
spectacularly well the courses really
are quite beautiful so that's so nice to
see well I I'm excited to watch I mean
just I don't like watching myself but I
just like to see how it all turns out
and um like I said I you can't do
lectures like this in universities
anymore just because of the way
University structured and the testing
and the classes and everything else so
just having the opportunity to go deep
on something was fun and get it recorded
yeah so I I appreciate yeah well that's
what we tell people when they come is
like we would like you to come down
there and talk for eight hours about the
thing you would like to talk about most
if you could and that's what I did when
I recorded my courses and I was able to
go into the specifics of a thinker much
more deeply than I could well in any
course at at at University mean I like
teaching the courses I taught at Harvard
and at the University of Toronto but
there's way more freedom in this
approach and what that should mean is
that if we get the right people and we
have got the right people they should be
able to bring their best to the platform
and share that with everyone and it it
looks so far that the response of the
students is exactly that and most of our
students by the way this is quite
interesting it looks like about 75% of
our students and we don't have the final
numbers yet are really there because not
even because they want the course credit
and we're working very hard on the
accrediation front by the way and that
looks very promising but because they
like a lot of them are people who wish
they could have had postsecondary
education and didn't have the
opportunity so sometimes older people
because everybody's welcome regardless
of their age and but generally they're
the people that were in your audience
when you came down there which is the
reason they're on the platform is
because they want to learn and so that's
a great opportunity for a lecturer too
because there's nothing better than
having an audience of people who
actually are playing the same game you
are yeah so I went into Academia because
I wanted to understand The Human
Condition and I love ideas and I did a
post talk with a academic named Roy bow
Meister who was a generational thinker
and one day a week we'd stay up till you
know 2: in the morning just talking
about ideas and that to me is kind of
the heart of the whole thing that's what
I love about it I think in these courses
you're able to capture a little of that
you're able to capture the depth you're
able to capture the the the love of just
ideas and playing with ideas and I think
that's I don't know that's what I enjoy
so thank you for inviting me it was fun
oh man it's it's a pleasure well we're
also hoping and this is going to be a
tough n to crack you know it's not
obvious what universities do right
because there's the sup The
Superficial elements the obvious ones
let's say there are professors there are
students there are classrooms there are
lectures there are tests in a way that's
easy to duplicate online what's harder
to duplicate and the universities aren't
that great at this either by the way is
the apprenticeship element the
mentorship element and The Social
Network element right and so those are
are things we're very acutely aware of
and you know we're hoping for example
that our professors will use the social
media site to interact with students and
we're putting together study groups that
are specific to each course and we're
going to do meetups of people and we we
also hope this would be fun we hope for
example to have conventions maybe a
couple of times a year where we rent
something approximately you know the
size of a large theater or stadium and
we bring 10 of our lectures together for
2 or three days and you know however
many people we can attract so that we
can well we can do something in the in
the real world that's akin to you know
the university experience and we're
hoping too that people will do that
spontaneously if we have enough students
so that in New York or in Chicago at
least in the bigger urban areas there
could be centers where people go to
watch the lectures together for example
and so we know we have to crack the
social the social part of it yeah
extremely important and one way of doing
that is to get the social media Network
right so that you know
hopefully we can have a curated social
media experience that offers people the
benefits of social media without all the
pathologies that we've that we've been
laying out so you know we'll see if we
can develop that culture right from the
beginning so anyways you'll get all your
membership information on the 9th of
September which is when all the courses
become freely available and you know
we've got 30,000 people on the platform
already and the platform looks stable it
hasn't crashed we've been able to
deliver the courses to everyone and
so and we have a number of jurisdictions
interested in working with us to pursue
accreditation so so you never know you
know and that we also hope to use the AI
agents that are available now so that
we'll be able to take your course for
example and translate it into the five
biggest languages of the world to begin
with and maybe we can bring higher educ
to the developing world at a very low
cost so you know that would be cool can
pull it off so basically you got 30 you
built a university already got 30,000
people that's it's pretty remarkable
yeah and the language thing would work I
imagine I I imagine that's something
well they're getting pretty good at it
close right yeah well well it might be
there already that what we've so we
could transcribe you into Spanish and
the AI systems would mod ify your mouth
and use your voice and intonation and
they're very good at that now we've been
struggling a bit to find a company that
can do that
and really accurate translation right
because those are two separate problems
but my suspicions are that
that's well it's already cracked to some
degree and I think it'll be fully
cracked within the next four or five
months so that's really cool and God
only knows how many languages we might
be able to Branch into so you know we
should be able to offer people very high
quality educational experience in
multiple languages at very low cost and
scale like mad over the next few years
so so that's fun and and and interesting
so anyways you'll have all your material
on the 9th of September so we're looking
very forward to that so let me ask you
another question here why don't you
flesh out for us a little bit based on
your experience in the lab and otherwise
um the the nature of narcissism EX what
you've been studying what are these
people like and how do you identify them
yeah I mean it's it's a little
complicated because the term
narcissism um we think about it as both
a personality trait you know an
individual difference and what we mean
by a trait is somebody's you know
thoughts feelings and behaviors are
consistent across time and situation so
somebody acts the way in one situation
they act the way in another situation
they'll probably act the same way in six
months and in terms of
narcissism um we find that in the
personality uh world there's sort of two
different flavors or two different forms
of
narcissism what most of us are talking
about is this more grandiose form this
you know you said disagreeable
extroverts so people that are
self-centered uh have a sense of
superiority have a sense of entitlement
but are also assertive agentic maybe
charismatic extroverted driven um so
that combination of
grandiosity is what you see in your
classic ex-boyfriend your politician
your celebrity that's that
profile and then there's the more
vulnerable form of narcissism which
people don't talk about as much where
you have that
antagonism but you also have things like
Envy comes out a lot more with
vulnerable narcissism and you see a lot
of Envy right now and then you also get
a lot of neuroticism so people who are
vulnerable narcissists appear more uh
they might appear depressed or anxious
and then you kind of get to know them
and you're like wait you're kind of
self-centered too you kind of think
people don't so they're kind of the more
passive narcissist no is that is that
the AIS okay so is the fundamental axis
of discrimination there trait
neuroticism like if you take your
extroverted disagreeable unconscientious
person let's say so the real kind of
narcissist that's bordering on
psychopathy and then you break them into
two types you'd have the low neuroticism
Fearless movie uh villain type of
implacable predatory narcissist but then
you could flip that and you could say
well what about the people who are
really high in neuroticism well they can
be just as narcissistic as you pointed
out but they're going to be depressed
and anxious claim victimization they're
going to use their suffering as a means
of manipulating people like is it
neuroticism that's the distinguisher
between vulnerable and grandi post
narcissism the neuroticism and also
you'll see lower extroversion with more
vulnerable narcissism so the
extroversion won't be as high and the
neuroticism will be higher so it's
driven more it's more it's more of a
defensive structure I don't want people
to critici it's you know sometimes
called thin skin narcissism I'm looking
for people trying to criticize me
whereas people are more grandiose are
like I'm looking for an opportunity to
shine hey there's a there's a camera you
know here's a microphone awesome um so
it's a little different it's like
approach versus avoidance orientation
and of course some people have
characteristics of both um but those
that that's the main distinction that
we've seen in the literature and that
took about 20 years to sort out it
sounds crazy but because of the history
because what happened historically is
the clinicians who were seen narcissism
were often seen more
vulnerability the people who were
studying narcissism in the world of
leadership were seeing much more Grand
of like stud criminal criminal or in or
in criminality they're seing more
grandiosity um and so you ended up with
sort of two theories coming
together and then on and then there's
the issue of what's a personality
disorder and that's typically when you
take that narcissism and it in a
narcissistic personality disorder is
grandiose but also has elements of
vulnerability in it and you make it
extreme
and then inflexible so one of the
Challen you know if I'm narcissistic on
stage that's fine but if I go home and
I'm that way with my kids I'm that way
with my wife I'm going to have problems
so when your personality becomes
inflexible uh then you get the
impairment you ruin your relationships
you you you take too big of risks at
work you're too self-centered to learn
from your mistakes so you're
overconfident you make Bad Business
decisions uh whatever the case is you
have that sort of impairment and that's
where you start talking about a
personality
disorder people with a personality
disorder that it's the extreme
narcissism sometimes there's some trauma
something going on in childhood that
maybe makes it more fixed but generally
it's just the extreme with
impairment um and then people have
noticed some other kinds of narcissism
sometimes people talk about communal
narcissism which are people that take uh
the enhancements more like I'm the best
friend ever um I'm the most moral person
never s a more moralistic face on
narcissism sometimes in the clinical
World they'll talk about malignant
narcissism as a specifier so it's I'm
narcissistic but I'm also sort of
sadistic and pathological and mean so
there's that that kind of Darker face of
narcissism so you can move this around
in different ways but typically it's
that combination of you know that
disagreeable extrovert personality and
then what you're doing is that
self-regulation is about gaining
positive attention and avoiding negative
attention so gaining attention gaining
status gaining power yeah yeah okay so
so well we should also point out
something that's that's worth thinking
about for people too with regards to
being self centered you know it's it's
it's kind of an odd linguistic
formulation and there's an inaccuracy in
it that's actually dangerous because the
narcissists aren't so much self-centered
as they are whim centered right and that
that goes along with the immaturity
because if you were treating yourself
properly you're playing the long game
you're trying to regulate your social
relationships your your marriage your
your relationship with your children
you're not going to be
selfish but that what that means
more specifically more more more
precisely is that you're not going to
sacrifice the future or other people
around you to the immediate
gratification of your motivational or
emotional states right and so the self
it's that because the the narcissistic
type isn't exactly selfish not in a
productive way because they're they're
they don't do well across time what they
are are prisoners of their own whims and
that speaks to the immaturity as well
cuz like a 2-year-old is a creature of
whim I mean there's a developmental
trajectory towards exploration and
integration but fundamentally
2-year-olds aren't social and they want
what they want right now or it's tantrum
time and and kids are more or less like
that some are very tantrum prone and
some much less so but that's still part
and parcel of being a 2-year-old but
that that selfishness that goes along
with narcissism isn't really care for
yourself it's subjugation to your own
immature whims right it's just not a
produ it's not like the narcissist's
benefit not really I I like that you're
pushing back on that term because you're
you're correcting that that it isn't
self-centered like you know what I
really care about myself and what's best
for me in the next 20 years and I have a
vision and I'm pursuing that Vision
aggressively it's like oh here's an
opportunity for status I'm going to take
it oh there's a cute woman my wife's not
going to find out about this it's much
more hedonistic it's much more immediate
action which is why we were talking
about conscientiousness as being a
buffer to this I mean that's why it's
important um as I usually tell my
students uh Hedonism is a terrible way
to be happy if you do what makes you
happy in the moment all the time you're
guaranteed to be depressed and ruin your
life I mean so yes this by self-centered
it's much more whim centered it might be
that the Cardinal elements of of
narcissism are disagreeableness let's
say say extroversion low
conscientiousness when it gets really
pathological but that that shortterm
Orient short-term pleasure orientation
is a crucial element of it I think right
and that would be the hedonistic element
and I don't think you get really you
certainly don't get the malignant
narcissistic or the criminal
narcissistic type without including that
Hedonism and that would be something
like short-term mating strategy uh live
for the day Hedonism that's that's part
and part that and I do think that that's
really equivalent to something like lack
of cortical maturation right because
it's the default condition of the
typical 2-year-old but now there's
another element of this that's cool too
so you know in the uh linguistic
analysis that established the big five
there were all sorts of trait
descriptors of negative emotion that
loaded powerfully on
neuroticism right one of those this is
so cool is
self-consciousness which is actually a
facet in the NEOS system and this is
something that's also extremely worth
thinking about relationship to
selfishness because you might think well
I'm concerned with myself and that's
going to make me happy it's like no
self-consciousness is indistinguishable
from negative emotion and so it's so
interesting a because what it implies is
that it isn't that there's a causal
connection between being obsessed with
yourself and being miserable it's that
they're actually the same thing by
different names so you know one of the
ways I used to treat my socially anxious
clients so maybe they were worried about
going to a party and one approach to
that would be to teach them relaxation
exercises and to teach them to encourage
them not to focus on their own
experience but when you tell someone not
to think about something they tend to
think about it more right right so what
I did was I said well go to that party
and and pick a couple of people and try
to make them comfortable that's
interesting yeah little jiujitsu there
that makes sense it work well it worked
like a charm you know because well first
of all as soon as they most of these
people who were socially anxious had
some social skill you know not all of
them some of them were very badly
socialized and they were anxious because
they just didn't know how to behave in a
social environment but some of them had
social skills that they'd shut off
because of their anxiety and then if
they focused on being hospitable let's
say then well they weren't thinking
about themselves
and then they were effective and their
anxiety went away and they started to
flow into a natural conversation so you
know another thing worth pointing out
say on the Hedonism front is that not
only is short-term gratification of your
whims a bad strategy even to gratify
them but because it's associated with
self-consciousness because it's
associated with what you want right now
it's also a direct Pathway to high
levels of negative emotion a absolutely
so part of depression is
self-consciousness you look like
definitions of depression part of it in
there it's that neuroticism piece and
thinking about yourself is not a recipe
for happiness like think about anything
about yourself um and also what you're
saying is great with you know you're
talking about that as a manipulation to
deal with social anxiety you also see
that in some of the social psych work on
egotism where people want self-esteem
you can say hey here your new roommate
go get some self-esteem from your
roommate or you can say hey go form a
good relationship with your roommate
people who go out and try to form a good
relationship with the roommate end up
getting self-esteem the people who try
to get self-esteem don't get self-esteem
so the self-esteem is sort of a side
effect or epiphenomenon of forming close
relationships with people but if you go
directly important yeah yeah well it's
so important to say that because I was
so called for like 20 years about the
self-esteem movement because I knew that
from the personality front it's like
you're not teaching self-esteem you're
teaching something like fragile
narcissism that's a very bad thing to
teach kids yeah it's really bad and you
know your your point is exactly right
it's like the what we call self-esteem
which is really regulation of negative
emotion to a large degree is actually
obtained by establishing long-term
functional reciprocal relationships
right and so because those are stable
and reliable that decreases negative
emotion and most selfesteem measures are
primarily neuroticism like there's
extraversion in there but it's primarily
neuroticism reversed so yeah it's so
interesting that and psychologists could
do this they could teach people we've
done a bad job of this that the best
Pathway to emotional self-regulation is
through service to other people right
that's that's a great deal for every
everybody a long time ago Jean Twang and
I took a look at this and wrote a book
called The narcissism epidemic and we
were looking at the cultural changes
really emerging out of the self-esteem
movement and other things and that's
exactly what you found is people said
well we need to give K kids self-esteem
so what we'll do is make them feel
special I'm like that's a disaster the
way you make people self-esteem is you
have you know positive loving
relationships and age appropriate
challenges so they can get some
confidence and sense of connection and
as you pointed out relationships are a
long-term durable source of of
well-being I mean I you know I can be
close to my siblings for 50 70 years
hopefully if we make it getting
self-esteem from winning or being cool
or attractive is a shorter term game you
know thrill of victory Agony of defeat
and it's very hard to be relevant for a
long time so just in terms of the
strategy you know if you want to like
yourself focus on relationships that's
going to work all right well look that's
a really good place to end and also a
good time to end so for everybody
watching and listening I'm going to
delve more into Dr Campbell's um
autobiographical background because we
didn't flesh that out as much as I would
have like to on this side so if you want
to join us on the daily wire side for
the additional for the uh extra half an
hour of our conversation like please do
join us there I'd like to well i' would
like to find out for example what it was
that
um impelled Dr Campbell to start
studying narcissism to begin with and
also how that's associated with
self-enhancement we didn't talk a lot
about entitlement which I would have
liked to have covered because that's not
something that people understand uh
really deeply and entitlement is a very
dangerous uh attitude and one that's not
going to work out very well for the
entitled person let's say so anyways all
of you who are watching and listening
you could join us on the daily wire side
and Dr Campbell thank you very much for
talking to us today about narcissism the
time flew by it's an incredibly
important topic at the moment given the
narcissistic proclivity of our social
media environment that's for sure it it
might be the compelling challenge of the
age as a matter of fact and so you
happen to be I I didn't I didn't
remember that you were from Roy's lab
from Dr bom Meister um I knew Roy to
some degree and uh um he was he's an
outstanding social psychologist and so
and and right and were you a graduate
student with with Jean I I was Jean and
I were postdocs at the same time so we
shared an office uh at Case Western yeah
we had a basement office down there it's
great right right because I did I did an
interview with her too and I really
liked her work struck me quite deeply
her work on narcissism absolutely
absolutely yeah very
rich vein to to mine that intersection
between psychopathology social
psychology and personality psychology
and that's right where you guys fit so
and Roy as well so all right sir well
thank you very much for the conversation
and for everybody watching and listening
um join us on the daily wire side and
otherwise thank you very much for your
time and attention thank you sir thank
you
[Music]